---
layout: post
title: "Unlock Turkey: Amazing Mix of History and Nature"
date: 2024-01-19 17:00:19 -0500
subtitle: Nestled between the azure waters of the Mediterranean and the Black Sea, Turkey stands as a captivating crossroads where the influences of East and West converge.
description: Experience Turkey's rich history, beautiful landscapes, and friendly culture. Perfect for travelers seeking a unique adventure. Plan your trip now!
image: /assets/img/posts-img/turkey/travel-to-turkey.webp
tags:
- turkey
- history
- culture
- nature
- travel
permalink: "/turkey/"
pagination:
  enabled: true
---

<h1>Escaping the Busy Work Life: A Guide to Turkish Vacation Spots</h1>
<p>
    Have your holiday dreams, conceived as an escape from the busy and stressful work life, become your biggest source of motivation throughout the year?
</p>
<p>
    Well, the special time you've been waiting for has finally arrived. Now, it's time to take a short break from all the work preoccupying your mind and breathe a little. Although it's not easy in this rich geography, your only task is to decide where to spend your summer vacation this year for you and your loved ones.
</p>
<p>
    If you haven't decided yet, try looking at our list of "20 Places to Spend Summer Vacation in Turkey." It's possible to reach Turkey's most beautiful holiday destinations by bus or plane tickets!
</p>

<h2>Popular Holiday Destinations in Turkey</h2>
<ol>
    <li>
        <h3>Bodrum, Muğla</h3>
        <p>
            At the top of our holiday destinations list, of course, is Bodrum. Perhaps the most well-known and talked about among all vacation spots in Turkey. When we combine the words sea, sand, and sun in Turkey, the first place that comes to mind for many of us is Bodrum.
        </p>
        <p>
            Bodrum, a lively district in all four seasons, would be unfairly limited if only associated with the summer season. Nevertheless, it's an undeniable fact that the population in the region increases by an average of 10 times during the summer.
        </p>
        <p>
            In Bodrum, formerly known as Halicarnassus, you will find not only the sun, crystal-clear sea, or vast beaches but also the footprints of thousands of years of history and the mystery of mythology. The Bodrum Castle, which once won the title of "Best Museum of the Year," is located right in the heart of the district.
        </p>
        <p>
            When you get a chance from the sea, make sure to visit the Underwater Archaeology Museum and the Ancient Theatre. Bodrum, one of the largest districts of Muğla, is particularly notable for its nightlife, which is significantly felt by tourists.
        </p>
        <h4>What to Do in Bodrum?</h4>
        <ul>
            <li>Don't miss the opportunity to see the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, one of the Seven Wonders of the World, in Bodrum.</li>
            <li>Visit Bitez Beach with a 700-meter coastline and 20-meter beach width, and enjoy the sea and sun.</li>
            <li>You must have heard that Zeki Müren was from Bodrum. So, don't leave Bodrum without visiting the Zeki Müren Art Museum.</li>
            <li>Discover Dibeklihan Culture and Art Village, where you can always find an event, discussion, exhibition, or screening.</li>
            <li>If you want to conquer Bodrum from the inside, join the daily boat tours. You will feel like embracing the whole of Bodrum from the sea.</li>
        </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
    <h3>Ayvalık, Balıkesir</h3>
    <p>
        One of the most beautiful places to vacation is Ayvalık, a district of Balıkesir that seems to have fled towards the Aegean. You will immediately notice that its heart, soul, and joy belong entirely to the Aegean. Turn your route to this charming town to remember Ayvalık not only for its toast but also for Cunda Island, Devil's Table, or Sarımsaklı Beach throughout your life.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Ayvalık?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Do you want to enjoy the sea in a peaceful atmosphere? Head directly to Sarımsaklı Beach.</li>
        <li>For those who think "A summer holiday is incomplete without raki and fish," you are in the right place. Here, "Raki, Fish, Ayvalık" are always mentioned in the same sentence.</li>
        <li>Reserve a significant portion of your holiday for Cunda, the center of shopping, nightlife, and history. Whether it's night stalls or day markets, look for original gifts for your loved ones.</li>
        <li>While wandering through Cunda's famous houses and stone streets, take plenty of photos.</li>
        <li>Visit the historic olive oil and soap factory.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <h3>Alaçatı, İzmir</h3>
    <p>
        Among holiday resorts, if there was a list titled "Best Emerging Places," Çeşme would undoubtedly be at the top. The role of Alaçatı in Çeşme's unstoppable rise is undeniable. Previously known only for windsurfing, Alaçatı is now an indispensable address for summer vacations.
    </p>
    <p>
        Alaçatı, located about 90 km from İzmir, welcomes you with its signature windmills along the way. With its boutique hotels, extremely stylish venues, rough seas beloved by surf enthusiasts, and authentic bazaar, Alaçatı promises a colorful summer vacation.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Alaçatı?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Do not overlook the iconic windmills of Alaçatı. The 150-year-old windmills attract great interest from tourists.</li>
        <li>Every holiday destination has a small or large bazaar, but Alaçatı's exceeds expectations. For shopping, look no further than Alaçatı bazaar, where you will find everything you need.</li>
        <li>Take lots of photos while walking through colorful stone houses.</li>
        <li>If you have a chance, watch the surfing competitions on site.</li>
        <li>Participate in the famous Alaçatı Herb Festival, which attracts record participation every year.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <h3>Eski Foça, İzmir</h3>
    <p>
        If İzmir is the pearl of the Aegean, then its pearl is undoubtedly Foça. Foça has managed to preserve its beauty without much damage over the years. Divided into Eski (Old) Foça and Yeni (New) Foça, both places attract tourists, but Eski Foça is more prominent as it has remained unchanged for years. With its small harbor area, numerous fishing boats, clean coastal road, boutique hotels converted from old Greek houses, and narrow backstreets, it offers the peace you're looking for.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Eski Foça?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Enjoy delicious appetizers and freshly caught fish at a seafront fish restaurant. And remember, in Eski Foça, it's customary to open conversations with neighboring tables while drinking rakı and clinking glasses.</li>
        <li>If you want an activity other than rakı, listen to live music groups that perform in authentic cafes and bars.</li>
        <li>Join boat tours to İncir Island, Orak Island, and Siren Rocks. On Siren Rocks, see seals continuing their natural lives.</li>
        <li>Take daily Blue cruises to nearby islands and bays. Don't forget to eat ice cream on the islands you visit.</li>
        <li>Discover the Athena Temple, Sacred Area, and theater from the Hellenistic period.</li>
        <li>See the Persian Monument Tomb, known as the "Stone House," located 7 km from Foça.</li>
        <li>Visit the Archaic Wall and Herodotus Wall, revealed through excavations showing evidence of a war in 546 BC.</li>
        <li>See the historic windmills on Top Mountain as you descend towards Foça. You might be seeing them in their last state before renovation.</li>
        <li>Explore the family rock tomb known as Şeytan Hamamı, located at the foot of Çan Hill.</li>
        <li>Wander around Eski Foça bazaar and its charming gift shops, and find reasonably priced souvenirs to take home.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for each destination follow in a similar structure -->
    <!-- Example for Fethiye, Muğla -->
    <h3>Fethiye, Muğla</h3>
    <p>
        Fethiye, another gem of Muğla, is a preferred destination for those seeking a holiday away from noise and crowds. Known for its rich history spanning from the Lycians to the Romans and then to the present, Fethiye is synonymous with Ölüdeniz, just 10 km away from the center.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Fethiye?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Enjoy a casual fish sandwich or tantuni on the promenade and try the famous snow halva for dessert.</li>
        <li>Join the daily Twelve Islands boat tour from the harbor.</li>
        <li>If you want to be neighbors with Caretta caretta turtles, Çalış Beach awaits you.</li>
        <li>Don't miss Butterfly Valley, 5 km away from Ölüdeniz, named after the butterflies in the area.</li>
        <li>Experience nature's beauty in various shades of blue and green at Kabak Bay.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Kaş – Kalkan, Antalya -->
    <h3>Kaş – Kalkan, Antalya</h3>
    <p>
        Kaş, one of Turkey's most popular vacation spots, is a paradise corner in Antalya. Each district in Antalya is a world of its own, and Kaş is no exception, especially favored by campers and divers.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Kaş-Kalkan?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Join Kaş Camping for a cheerful atmosphere and mingle with tourists from all over the world who come in their caravans.</li>
        <li>Don't miss the chance to dive in Kaş; even if you're a beginner, join the shallow discovery tours.</li>
        <li>Visit Patara for its vastness and Kaputaş Beach for its small and charming nature. However, be aware that Kaputaş has strong waves, so it's more suitable for confident swimmers.</li>
        <li>Don't miss the festivals in Gömbe Plateau, reminiscent of heaven.</li>
        <li>Paddle a canoe right next to the ancient city of Simena.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Bozcaada, Çanakkale -->
    <h3>Bozcaada, Çanakkale</h3>
    <p>
        Bozcaada is an unmissable part of any list of vacation spots in Turkey. If it's your first time visiting Bozcaada, you're in for a unique experience that's hard to describe. Each visit feels like the first, renewing those special feelings.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Bozcaada?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Climb to Bozcaada Castle and immerse yourself in the island's panoramic views.</li>
        <li>While exploring the Greek neighborhood, don't forget to capture every moment in photos.</li>
        <li>Your loved ones will expect Bozcaada wine, so make a note of it.</li>
        <li>If possible, attend the famous Bozcaada Jazz Festival and the Harvest Festival.</li>
        <li>To fully experience Bozcaada, rent a bicycle from the center and create your own route.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Kuşadası, Aydın -->
    <h3>Kuşadası, Aydın</h3>
    <p>
        Kuşadası, one of Turkey's most important holiday resorts, is an ideal destination offering sea, sand, sun, and nature. It's a tranquil, quiet, and economical spot located between the borders of İzmir and Aydın.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Kuşadası?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>For swimming and sunbathing, visit the popular Ladies Beach in Kuşadası.</li>
        <li>If you crave a nice village breakfast or wine, Şirince is not far away.</li>
        <li>Don't leave without seeing Kuşadası Güvercin Adası Castle, a prominent feature in many local souvenirs.</li>
        <li>Kuşadası hosts some of Turkey's largest and most entertaining aqua parks for a thrilling experience.</li>
        <li>If you can, join the Kuşadası Youth Festival organized every July.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Çıralı – Olimpos – Adrasan, Antalya -->
    <h3>Çıralı – Olimpos – Adrasan, Antalya</h3>
    <p>
        For a diverse vacation experience, consider visiting Çıralı, Olimpos, and Adrasan in Antalya's west. These destinations are especially popular for those looking to cover multiple vacation spots in one trip.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Çıralı, Olimpos, Adrasan?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Ride the cable car to the summit of Tahtalı Mountain in Olimpos for breathtaking views.</li>
        <li>Before leaving Adrasan, visit the ancient city of Phaselis, dating back to the 7th century BC.</li>
        <li>In Çıralı, visit the famous Yanartaş, where natural gases cause the stones to burn continuously for years.</li>
        <li>Join boat tours to Suluada, also known as the "Little Maldives," near Adrasan.</li>
        <li>Visit the historic Roman Bath near Musa Mountain in Olimpos.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Datça, Muğla -->
    <h3>Datça, Muğla</h3>
    <p>
        Want to cross a warm bridge between the Aegean and the Mediterranean? Datça is your destination. Datça, essentially a peninsula, boasts 52 different bays and is reachable from Bodrum by ferry or a 4-hour drive from İzmir.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Datça?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Visit the street and house dedicated to the great poet Can Yücel in Datça.</li>
        <li>Swim in the cool waters at Kumluk Beach.</li>
        <li>Buy plenty of famous Datça almonds and almond paste for yourself and your loved ones.</li>
        <li>Don't miss the chance to see the ancient city of Knidos, a center of culture and art in ancient times.</li>
        <li>Take a day trip to the Greek island of Simi, just off the coast of Datça. Green and grey passport holders don't need a visa for Simi, but red passport holders should obtain a Schengen visa in advance.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Belek, Antalya -->
    <h3>Belek, Antalya</h3>
    <p>
        Belek in Antalya is synonymous with world-class golf facilities. Apart from golf, Belek offers wonderful restaurants, shopping opportunities, a long beach, and modern hotels.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Belek?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Explore the Aspendos Theater, an architectural marvel of Greek design, and discover its red zigzag motifs from the Seljuk period.</li>
        <li>Visit the Acropolis’s upper part, where other ruins of Aspendos are located.</li>
        <li>See the impressive 1 km long aqueducts of Aspendos.</li>
        <li>Walk through the well-preserved "water city" of Perge Ancient City, part of the UNESCO World Heritage List.</li>
        <li>Take photos at Kurşunlu Waterfall, hidden among pine trees and home to hundreds of bird species.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Akyaka, Muğla -->
    <h3>Akyaka, Muğla</h3>
    <p>
        Akyaka, located only 18 km from the center of Muğla, is a former fishing village that has become increasingly popular but still maintains a quiet charm. It's part of Turkey's "Cittaslow" or "Slow City" movement.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Akyaka?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Discover Yuvarlak Çay on the Köyceğiz road.</li>
        <li>Get the tastiest fish at the best prices from Akyaka Cooperative.</li>
        <li>Take a slow tour through the streets and examine the award-winning architecture of Akyaka Houses.</li>
        <li>If you prefer not to stay in a hotel or pension, consider Akyaka Forest Camp.</li>
        <li>If you like cold and harsh seas, Çınar Beach in Akyaka will be your go-to spot.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Gökçeada, Çanakkale -->
    <h3>Gökçeada, Çanakkale</h3>
    <p>
        Gökçeada, a favorite among tourists visiting Çanakkale, offers a unique experience with its serene atmosphere. It's notable for its abandoned Greek houses and roads leading to the sea.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Gökçeada?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Explore the beautiful sunflower fields; lose yourself among them for a while.</li>
        <li>Visit a Yörük tent and try tandır, a local delicacy.</li>
        <li>Head to Aydıncık Bay for surfing experiences.</li>
        <li>Sit under the 630-year-old tree in Tepeköy and listen to stories about the island.</li>
        <li>For swimming, Laz Koyu is the ideal choice among several alternatives.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Alanya, Antalya -->
    <h3>Alanya, Antalya</h3>
    <p>
        Alanya in Antalya is one of the most sought-after districts in the tourism capital. Filled with numerous resorts, eateries, and beaches, Alanya offers a rich blend of history and modern attractions.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Alanya?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Explore Alanya Castle and the Red Tower, showcasing traces from the Roman to the Ottoman era.</li>
        <li>Visit the Damlataş Cave, discovered in 1948, believed to have healing properties for certain ailments.</li>
        <li>Walk on the warm sands of Cleopatra Beach before ending your tour of Alanya.</li>
        <li>View the exhibits at the Alanya Atatürk House, including sculptures, ornaments, kilims, and woodworks.</li>
        <li>Taste local specialties such as İlibada wrap, Laba, Göleviz, and Öksüz halva.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Assos, Çanakkale -->
    <h3>Assos, Çanakkale</h3>
    <p>
        Assos, known for its fresh air and historical texture, is a popular destination for those seeking tranquility and peace. Located opposite the island of Lesbos, Assos attracts tourists from Istanbul, Izmir, and beyond.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Assos?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Visit Assos Ancient City, a site that hosted various civilizations and was home to Aristotle's philosophy school.</li>
        <li>Admire the Temple of Athena, situated at the top of the volcanic hill, offering stunning sea views.</li>
        <li>Explore the Assos Ancient Harbor, retaining its historic ambiance.</li>
        <li>Discover the rare galley paintings at Hüdavendigar Mosque.</li>
        <li>Swim in the awarded blue-flag waters of Kadırga Bay, known for its cold waters.</li>
        <li>Visit the unspoiled Sokakağzı Bay, surrounded by olive trees, and indulge in its sea-blue combinations.</li>
        <li>Taste handmade mantı or seafood at Sokakağzı Village.</li>
        <li>Wander through the streets of Behramkale Village, located above the Ancient Harbor.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Marmaris, Muğla -->
    <h3>Marmaris, Muğla</h3>
    <p>
        Marmaris in Muğla, a favorite not only among local but also international tourists, is renowned for its clear bays surrounded by forests and clean beaches.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Marmaris?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Visit the famous bays like Bördübet, Kumlubük, and Boncuk Bay.</li>
        <li>Explore Marmaris Castle, now a museum, along with its Archeology Hall, Ethnography Hall, and art gallery.</li>
        <li>See the Hafsa Sultan Caravanserai, a relic of the Ottoman era.</li>
        <li>Dive in Baca Cave, known for its shrimps and cardinal fish, popular among photographers.</li>
        <li>Visit Marmaris Halıcı Ahmet Urkay Museum to see a wide range of exhibits including sculptures, ornaments, kilims, and woodworks.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Dalyan, Muğla -->
    <h3>Dalyan, Muğla</h3>
    <p>
        Dalyan in Muğla, despite its growing popularity, has maintained a calm atmosphere. It's a preferred destination in both summer and winter for tranquility and serenity.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Dalyan?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Visit the 5 km long İztuzu Beach, unique for being flanked by fresh and saltwater, and swim with sea turtles.</li>
        <li>Capture the sunset at Sülüngür Lake, surrounded by lush trees and reeds, and enjoy local delicacies at lakeside restaurants.</li>
        <li>Explore the ancient city of Kaunos, notable for its rock tombs, castle, city walls, theater, church, fountain, temples, harbor, and cemeteries.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Side, Antalya -->
    <h3>Side, Antalya</h3>
    <p>
        Side attracts tourists not only for its natural beauty but also for being a hub for nature sports. It boasts 9 blue flag beaches.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Side?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Explore the significant Roman architecture in Side Ancient City, including the historic gate, theater, agora, and Apollo's Temple.</li>
        <li>Visit Side Museum to see artifacts from Byzantine, Hellenistic, and Roman periods, including sculptures and Roman statues.</li>
        <li>Enjoy the beaches like Side Public Beach, Titreyengöl, Çolaklı, Sorgun, and Kumköy.</li>
        <li>For rafting enthusiasts, Köprülü Canyon, located 60 km from Side, is highly recommended.</li>
        <li>Visit Altınbeşik Cave for a unique boat tour experience and enjoy a cup of tea while there.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Gümbet, Muğla -->
    <h3>Gümbet, Muğla</h3>
    <p>
        Gümbet, located 3 km from Bodrum and recently attracting a surge of international tourists, is particularly favored by families with children due to its long sandy beach.
    </p>
    <h4>What to Do in Gümbet?</h4>
    <ul>
        <li>Swim at the 1 km long sandy Gümbet Beach, surrounding Gümbet Bay.</li>
        <li>For those interested in windsurfing, parasailing, and water skiing, Gümbet Bay and Beach are ideal for water sports.</li>
        <li>Gümbet Bay and its surroundings also serve as an excellent diving spot. You can join organized diving tours.</li>
        <li>Explore the historical texture of the Mindos Gate and see the vaults from the Hellenistic and Roman periods around it.</li>
        <li>Visit the local markets for Bodrum sandals, handicrafts, and textile products, and enjoy the vibrant nightlife on Bar Street.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
    <!-- Details for Kemer, Antalya -->
    <li>
        <!-- Details for Kemer, Antalya -->
        <h3>Kemer, Antalya</h3>
        <p>
            We end our list again with a holiday resort from Antalya; after all, the soloists come last: Kemer.
        </p>
        <p>
            Some refer to Kemer as "Little Russia," as it is a preferred destination for Russian tourists and is a leading actor in Turkey's tourism. Almost every day of the year is sunny in Kemer.
        </p>
        <p>
            Since all the places to visit are close to each other, it is possible to explore most of Kemer on foot. To fully enjoy the summer vacation, just open the doors to this hidden paradise at the foot of the Taurus Mountains.
        </p>
        <h4>What to Do in Kemer?</h4>
        <ul>
            <li>Discover the 540 km long Lycian Way, which is among the top 10 long-distance walking areas in the world.</li>
            <li>Visit the Olympos Beydağları National Park, which covers an area of 34,000 hectares and is full of red pine forests and natural habitats.</li>
            <li>Ayışığı Beach, located in a bay to the west of Kemer, is the right address for swimming and enjoying the sun.</li>
            <li>Go to Göynük Canyon, which is known for its giant waterfalls, for daily tours. If you want to camp, Göynük Canyon is a great choice.</li>
            <li>Take the cable car to the summit of Tahtalı Mountain, which is 2,300 meters high, and enjoy the breathtaking view.</li>
        </ul>
    </li>
</ol>
